# Reamission-Analysis-of-Diabetic-Patients
Diabetes is a chronic disease and one of the leading factors of death in recent times. It is widespread among a vast population and majorly contributes to several other diseases. The term ‘Hospital Readmission’ refers to when a patient discharged from a hospital has to be re-admitted within a certain time interval. The patients hospitalized with diabetes have a higher risk of being readmitted than the ones who weren’t hospitalized. The rate of hospital readmission is an indicator of the hospital quality as well as the treatment being performed.
<br><br>
The objective of the project is to analyze the diverse medical data of a diabetic patient (including age, gender, admission type, diabetic medications administered during encounter, duration of hospitalization, various laboratory test results, emergency visits in the year before hospitalization etc.) and predict whether the patient will be readmitted or not. The dataset that has been used in this project was sourced from UCI machine learning repository (https://archive.ics.uci.edu). This is a labeled data which means we already know the readmission state of every patient record in the dataset.
<br><br>
This project uses machine learning algorithms to perform readmission analysis of diabetic patients.  With this project, we aim to identify the likelihood of hospital readmission ousing the diverse features containing heterogeneous medical data about patients. This analysis will facilitate the hospitals in identifying the factors that lead to higher readmission of patients and thereby, improving the quality of their care or changing medications being offered.
<br><br>
The scope of this project ranges from gathering insights from the data using exploratory analysis to implementing a suitable machine learning model to perform predictions on the data.
* For exploratory analysis, a diverse set of visualizations have been used to uncover the distribution of data, identify discrepancies, outliers, or missing data.
* Further, various data wrangling techniques have been used to identify and impute the missing values present in the dataset and reduce the dimension by dropping unnecessary columns.
* Some high-level techniques have been used including feature selection and feature engineering to produce the best set of features that can be used to train the machine learning model.
* The dataset was then split in 2 sets, one was used to train the model and the other was used to validate the results.
* Finally, after exploring 3 different machine learning models, logistic regression was identified as the best model; the model was able to predict 92% of the readmitted patient records correctly.
